new guide for hyperliquid (#2878)
smartcontractkit/documentation: src/content/ccip/tools-resources/network-specific/hyperliquid-integration-guide.mdx

  enhanced tooling to further simplify this process for CCIP users.
</Aside>

## How Hyperliquid Works

Hyperliquid is an emerging app-chain that powers a popular decentralized exchange with over $4B USDC bridged in. Hyperliquid operates on a dual network system made up of HyperCore and HyperEVM which are fully integrated together to compose the general Hyperliquid State.

- HyperCore is the network where high-speed trading takes place at up to 200k orders per second, secured by HyperBFT Consensus. Trading occurs through a Central Limit Order Book (CLOB) which is different from most decentralized exchange liquidity pool structures.
- HyperEVM is where the supporting infrastructure and contracts are deployed, such as the MintAndBurnERC20 tokens deployed as a part of a CCIP implementation. There is a growing DeFi ecosystem including Money Markets, LSTs and DEXes on HyperEVM.

|                      |                              HyperCore                               |                        HyperEVM                        |
| :------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------: |

> | **Primary Function** | High-speed decentralized exchange trading via an on-chain order book | Supporting infrastructure and external smart contracts |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Primary Function** | High-speed decentralized exchange trading via an onchain order book | Supporting infrastructure and external smart contracts |
```

For example, when deploying a CCIP token on HyperEVM, a developer must first switch to large blocks by submitting the appropriate action to the API. This ensures the transaction has sufficient gas capacity to succeed within a large block.

```bash
{"type": "evmUserModify", "usingBigBlocks": true}
```

#### Read Precompiles

Smart contracts on HyperEVM can access data from HyperCore by calling special system-level addresses known as [precompiles](https://hyperliquid.gitbook.io/hyperliquid-docs/for-developers/hyperevm/interacting-with-hypercore). These addresses don't correspond to regular smart contracts; instead, they trigger native code execution on the validator node.

For example, when a contract on HyperEVM queries a token balance by calling a designated read precompile, it bypasses standard EVM execution. The call is handled directly by the validator, which fetches the requested data from HyperCore in real time. This mechanism provides secure, gas-efficient, read-only access to the core exchange state — including data such as order book balances, positions, and other protocol-level metrics.

> This design enables the development of on-chain applications that can respond to the live state of the central limit order book on HyperCore. The same precompile infrastructure also powers cross-chain bridging, allowing seamless integration between ERC-20 tokens on HyperEVM and their linked HIP-1 counterparts on HyperCore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This design enables the development of onchain applications that can respond to the live state of the central limit order book on HyperCore. The same precompile infrastructure also powers cross-chain bridging, allowing seamless integration between ERC-20 tokens on HyperEVM and their linked HIP-1 counterparts on HyperCore.
```
